You know, Hitler spoke to, he could speak things like inflation, right.
Which really existed. Um,
but he also appealed to the irrational emotions of Germans. Right.
He sought out scapegoats, you know, Jews, Roma,
um, disabled people, homosexuals and so on. Right. I mean, that's also,
there had been lot two, I mean, daddy of, um, you know, a, an antisemitism,
uh, the constant flagging of Zionist and crusaders,
it's the kind of shotgun approach to a search for followers.
But I also hazed to add that it's for all of the things that we could tick off
saying, well, yes, cash Mary's have suffered CHES have suffered.
And so on <affirmative> um, bin lad is never became a mass movement.
I mean, it never really, I think the, I mean,
this is the encouraging thing, right. About ideology. I mean, I think the,
the blood on his hands always limited his appeal among Muslims and others.
Um, but bin lad did have, I mean, he had a, there's a, there's a great book by,
um, a great scholar at, at UC San Diego. Um,
Jeremy pres hut who read a great book about global icons in which, uh,
he has bin Laden. He has, um, uh, Bob Marley,
he has Tupac, you know, he ask why, you know,
when he's doing research, uh, in east Africa,
why did he see young kids wearing bin Laden shirts?
They're also wearing like Tupac shirts they're wearing BI Bob Marley shirts.
And basically it's a way of, of looking at, um,
a kind of partial embrace of some aspects of
the rebellious nest of some of these figures,
some of the time by some people under certain conditions.
Well, the terrifying thing to me, so yeah,
there is a longing and a human heart to belong to a group and a charismatic
leader somehow, especially when you're young,
just a catalyst for all of that. And I tend to think
that perhaps actually hard to be Hitler, so a,
a leader so charismatic that he can rally a nation to,
to war and bin Laden perhaps were lucky,
was not sufficiently charismatic. I, I, I feel like if his writing was better,
if his speeches were better, if his ideas were stronger yeah. Uh,
better, it's like, uh,
more viral and then there would be more people kind of,
um, yeah. Young people uniting around him. So in some, in some sense,
it's almost like accidents of history of just how much charisma,
how much charisma, particular evil person has person like.
Bin Laden. I think it's fair. Evil, evil works, I think. Um, so.
You think bin Laden is evil. Oh.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, he was a, a mass murderer. Um, I'm just saying that,
you know, his ideas were, they're more complex than,
than we have tended to acknowledge. Um, they had,
they have a wider potential resonance than we would acknowledge. I mean,
and also, I guess what, I'm the just one fundamental point is that, um,
thinking about the complexity of bin Laden is also a way of removing him from
Islam. Um, he is not an Islamic thinker.
He is a cosmopolitan thinker who plays in all kinds of
modern ideologies, which have proven to mobilize people in the past. Right. So,
um, you know, antisemitism, um, populism, environmentalism,
and the kind of, and the, the urging to like, you know,
do something a about humanity, do something about suffering.
That's why I think the actual,
you ask about like what motivates people to do this kind of stuff.
I think that's why if one goes below the level of leadership,
and this is being reported, if you look at the,
the trial ongoing now in Paris of, uh,
the Lon murders, I think, um,
the court allowed some discussion of the background rounds of the accused and
they come from different backgrounds. But if there's any common bond,
it's kind of that they had some background in,
in petty crime famously that in the seven, seven bombings in London,
the metropolitan police, you know, the UK authorities looked at all those guys.
And what people want is idea that like, they must be very pious.
They must be, you know, super Islamic to do this kind of stuff.
They must be fanatical, true believers.
But what they found with those guys was that some were
nominally Muslim, some went to mosques, some didn't, um,
some were single young guys with like criminal backgrounds. Some,
you know, were like, sorry, they were, you know,
kind of misfits who never succeeded in anything. Uh, but others had, you know,
at least one thing had a wife and family who he, you know,
widow owed and orphaned. And so there's no, I mean, for policing, I mean,
if you're looking at to that lens,
there is no kind of typology there will predict who will become violent.
And that's why I think we have to move beyond thinking about religious
argumentation narrowly or by itself, and think about things like geopolitics,
think about how people respond to inequality, you know, the,
the existential threat of, of cry of, of, you know, climate crisis of,
um, a whole host of matters and,
and think about this is a mode of political contestation. I mean,
it's violent one, it's one I can condemn 'em it is evil, right? But it,
these are people that are, they're trying to be political.
They're trying to change things in some way. It's not narrowly about like,
I don't wanna impose Surey law on you. You know, you must wear a veil,
you must eat this kind of food. It's, it's not that kill,
but what one another quick thought about your interesting claim about charisma
in this? I think that the one self-limiting feature of this subculture
is that definitely, you know, I mentioned the, an of,
of not wanting to be seen and that the,
the kind of invisibility is a productive force of a power,
you know, which a colleague of mine who knows ancient history far better than I,
you know, said, oh, this is, you know, when she looked at,
at MI Lomar initially, or we come up in Laden, I mean,
this kind of studied posture of staying in the shadows
yeah. Is also a source of authority potentially because it, it, um,
it invites the idea and it's partly dictatorships do this. Well, I mean,
it invites the idea that someone's working and maybe it's,
it's the basis for a lot of Q Andon or other conspiracy today that someone's
working behind the scenes and things are gonna go the right way.
You can't see it, it,
but that's almost preferable because you can kind of feel it.
And so not having someone out front can maybe maybe more effective than having
someone out in front constantly.
Maybe, maybe.
And then the whole bin Laden, you know, Omar thing. Like you can't see me,
or if you look at, you know, bin Laden's photographs and his video stuff,
I mean, he's, he's coy. Uh,
some observers have noted that he's kind of effeminate.
He doesn't strike this kind of masculine. He's not ACE,
he's not a Hitler macho. I'm standing my dumping, my chest.
He's not doing the theatrical chin. You know, mm-hmm,
<affirmative> the theater people tell us is so aggressive. Um, you know, or.
Chin what chin up is, oh, I saw.
A great, uh, BBC theater person. It was kind of a,
it was a makeover show about how to become a better.
Oh, no, uh, a powerful, uh, yeah. Leader authoritarian figure.
No, just how to, how to like, get ahead in life and then, oh, okay, cool.
And just, and just like about acting like how you, you can act differently.
Right. So it was, it was BBC, um, and this woman claimed that, um,
you know, seeking your chin out, like a wrestler does, right.
Is the most like male to male. I love this kind.
Of most aggressive, hilarious analysis that people have about.
Power, but.
Watch the chin, watch the chin. It's the same as analyzing,
like in wrestling styles that win or fighting or so on.
There's so many ways to do well. The chin, I.
Mean, the Chan is a, could be interesting verbal gesture. And I, uh,
I've watched enough MIS footage for my classes to try to pick the right moment.
And the chin is, is all about the chin. So, and I have.
Watched human beings and human nature enough to know that there's more to a man,
a powerful man than a chin. Yeah.
No, no. I'm saying no, I'm saying it's an active aggression.
I'm not saying it's.
It's one of the many tools in the toolkit.
Yeah, sure. So she definitely, it's not, that's not all about the chin,
but it's, it's a, but.
That's what I'm trying to tell you about bin LA.
I don't think he was deliberate enough with the way he presents himself, but he.
What, what I'm saying about bin Laden that makes him different from these other
characters, is it because he played it being the scholar,
he played it being a figure of, of modesty and humility.
And that meant that he was often again, if you watch his visuals, I mean, yes,
there's one video of him firing a gun, but if you watch how he moved,
how he wouldn't look at people directly, how his face was almost, I mean,
he appears to be incredibly shy. Mm-hmm <affirmative> he saw spoken, you know,
his voice was low. He attempted to be poetic. Right.
So it wasn't a warrior kind of image that he tried to project of like a tough
guy. It was I'm, I'm demure, I'm humble.
I'm, you know, I'm, I'm offering you this message and that, and, and that the,
the appeal that he was going for was to see, um, to,
you know, to project himself as a scholar whose knowledge and humility,
the whole package carried with it,
an authenticity and a valor that would animate,
inspire people to commit act of violence. Right.
It's a different kind of like logic of like, yes, go and kill. Right. So he.
He put, he presented himself in contrast to the imperialist
kind of, um, macho power.
Powers, whatever. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So.
That's just yet another way of, yeah.
And you have to have facial hair or hair of different kindness recognized.
We had a very recognizable look too, or at least later in life.
Yeah. No, he, he, he tried to look apart. Um, yeah.
Yeah.
But I'm saying more fortunate that whatever calculation that he was making,
he was not more, um, effective,
but I mean, there's,
the world is full of terrorist organizations and we're fortunate to
the degree,
any one of them does not have an incredibly charismatic leader that obtains
the kind of power that's very difficult to,
to manage at the geopolitical.
Level. Yeah. We, and we credit the publics, you know, who don't,
who don't bind into that. Right. Who see through this, we credit the,
the critics, you know, um, barely on going much to nine 11 itself.
One of the problems was that us government officials kept kind of leaning on
Muslims to,
to condemn this as if all Muslims shared some collective responsibility
or culpability. And in fact, um,
dozens of scholars and organizations, hundreds condemn this,
but their condemnations never quite made it out, but it created attention where,
you know, if you wore a veil,
you must spend one of them and you must be on team bin Laden. And lot of the,
you know, I think a lot of the popular islands and discrimination and,
and profiling came out of that urge to see a oneness, which,
you know, bin, bin Laden projected, right. He wanted to say,
we are one community. You know, if you are a Muslim, you must be with me. Right.
But I think the that's where the,
the diversity of Muslim communities became important because outside of small
pockets, I mean, they didn't, they didn't accept his leadership. Right.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> people wore t-shirts in some countries. I mean,
non Muslims wore t-shirts cuz he was like, he stuck it to the Americans.
So mm-hmm <affirmative> in Latin America. People are like, yeah, that was sad.
But you know, finally,
I mean there was a kind of shot in Florida in that moment. Yeah.
International it's like SHA Guvera or somebody like that. SHA yeah. Chases.
The other character in uh Al's book. Yeah, yeah. That's right. That's right.
It's.
Just a simple, it's not exactly what he believed exactly.
Or the cruelty of actions he took. Right.
It's more like he stood for an idea of revolution versus authority.
That's right.
It's that's and that's a great way to understand bin modernism and the whole
phenomenon. But it, I think looking at the big picture, it's also, you wonder,
you know, will that ever end, right. I mean, is that, I mean, that's the,
the risk of being a kind of hyper power, um, like the us where you in,
in assisting on a kind of uni world in 2001, 2002, 2003,
I think that created, um, an almost irresistible target,
you know, wherever the us wanted to exert itself, militarily.